hey Ed excited to walk through this case
with you just for context this is a BCG
style case and so I'm going to look for
you to lead me through it if there are
numbers or exhibits it'll be up to you
to put some information in your
structure and then we will dive in from
there great sound good sounds good okay
awesome so let's get started our client
today is a national manufacturer and
seller of packaged cookies in the United
States called cookie Eco in the last 2
to 3 years they've seen a decline in
profits whereas the rest of the industry
has experienced Healthy Growth they've
come to us to identify the root cause of
this issue and how they can reverse
it
perfect so just to clarify our client
today is Cookie Co they are a national
manufacturer and seller of package
cookies in the United States and over
the past two to three years they they've
actually noticed a decline in
profitability whereas all their
competitors and the market in general
seems to actually be stagnant if not
growing exactly perfect okay so just a
few questions before I jump into my
framework awesome um their their scope
for this is is just the United States
correct absolutely okay wonderful and
can we assume that they maybe just
provide cookies they don't sell any
other sort of packaged goods and if if
they do we're just focusing on the
cookies today so yes they do sell other
products but are only Focus today is on
their cookie segment wonderful sounds
good do you mind I take a few minutes to
structure my thoughts go for
it
perfect awesome okay so I'm ready to
walk you through my thoughts for this so
when it comes to profitability obviously
there's there's two main things that can
that can increase or decrease
profitability the revenues and the costs
so there're actually two of the things
that I want to include in uh my thoughts
here as well as the market itself so
we're thinking competitors consumer
preferences um but let's dive into
revenues a little bit more um when it
comes to revenues two of the things that
I think could really impact us are
actually how many cookies they're
selling or the price at which they're
selling them at um and I'm going to keep
it a little bit surface level now maybe
we can dive into them later if we have
any information on that in terms of
costs there's fixed and variable fixed
might include labor or the warehousing
costs distribution things like that and
a variable would be ingredients and raw
materials in terms of the market itself
obviously we've noticed that the
competitors are actually increasing so
they they are eating up on market share
so one thing that might be causing that
is maybe some sort of innovation in the
cookie space maybe a new product or a
new type of product and linked to that
could be some sort of consumer
preference maybe consumers are trying to
go sugar-free now and we're not catering
to that um area of the market so with
that let's maybe dive into revenues and
costs do we have any information on on
that so we do but first of all I just
have a question about your hypothesis
yeah absolutely so talk to me about
whether you think it is revenues or
costs that the key issue here as we know
they're declining in profitability the
market has been growing what do you
think is going on yeah well my initial
hypothesis with that would be if the
market is growing itself we are probably
incurring either more costs or making
less Revenue per cost I our margin is
probably decreasing um again if the
whole Market's improving and all our
competitors improving we're probably
selling just fine would be my initial
guess obviously I'd want some more
information on that but I would imagine
that the root of that would be some
somewhere on the costs okay awesome well
I actually do have a breakdown of costs
can you walk me through the costs that
you talked through before I know you
mentioned some of them in your structure
and kind of do the same thing right just
give me hey what do you think are the
costs for this business and what do you
think would be the first place you would
look there yeah so let's almost going in
a chronological journey of the cookie
right so they making the cookie itself
that's where I think a lot of the
variable costs are going to come in in
terms of uh ingredients maybe um running
the some of the factories in terms of
the per unit cost there okay and then
once we've actually made them we need to
do a few things for them we need to
store them somewhere we need to package
them uh and we need to distribute them
okay and I would imagine that the um
root costs here are probably going to be
somewhere in terms of the storing or the
distribution of the cookies maybe um
there's something uh actually I'm I
might even steer more clear from the
distribution just because that might be
something that would affect the whole
Market instead of just our company um
but I'd love to know if you have more
information on yeah I think that's a
good Insight um just talking back
through some of the other things talk
about the macroeconomic environment that
we've been in right 2020 2021 2022 you
know walk through some of what you think
the context is what costs would you
expect to increase and which ones would
you not expect to increase you mentioned
distribution I think that's really
insightful can you just give us a little
bit more layering on that yeah we're
talking about distribution in particular
obviously we've been through we've been
through a lot in the past few years
whether it's been pandemics and and
other sort of um econom in fact there's
maybe some sort of uh recession that's
coming along and I think that one of the
big things there is that um and and F so
casually just recessions and
pandemics earthquakes and tornadoes as
you do yeah luckily I'm not the CEO of a
cookie company so I don't have to worry
about it too much not yet not yet um I
think one of the big things with that
would be uh when it comes to
distribution with a pandemic and with a
recession uh that's definitely a cost
that could increase if the if the actual
um supply of labor for distribution
whether it's drivers whether it's uh
some sort of freight operators that is
naturally going to be a little bit lower
and so if that's the case obviously just
with supply and demand that's going to
be something that's uh going to come at
a premium compared to what it might have
been three four five years ago yep okay
good I'm just making a couple of nuts
here yeah no worries fantastic okay so
um so picking one what's your number one
area of cost that you'd want to look at
here well I know we've driven into um
the distribution channels if we had any
information on raw materials or maybe a
portfolio of the the breakdown of costs
that would be really interesting but if
I had to go right now I think
distribution is probably where I would
be where I'd be focusing okay awesome
well I do have one exhibit let me put
this over in front of you and um so if
you want to just kind of walk me through
what you think the exhibit says here um
we've got you know a breakdown of some
of the costes you've requested and so
tell me what you think this is exhibit
is talking through yeah so this is great
so it looks here um like we are talking
about the previous three years in terms
of a breakdown of costs and actually
what's happening over those three years
and immediately my eyes are going into
storage and warehousing that's the seems
like the biggest increase I'll I'm going
to work through them left to right as
that seems a little bit easier okay so
in terms of raw materials that is
incrementally increasing almost at a
linear rate that's not actually um
something I would be terrified about
just because I would expect that to
happen with given what's happened with
covid and with recessions and so that
would be something that's expected why
would you why would you expect the raw
materials would increase I don't think
you're wrong but explain explain how
that ties together again if um in a
similar manner to the distribution
channels if there is a decrease in labor
or if there's an increase in demand um
with those things I would imagine that
raw materials naturally might just be a
little bit more expensive um and if if
if the cookie industry is growing as
well and more people are demanding those
ingredients that's probably going to
lead to an increase okay makes sense in
terms of storage and warehousing um
that's actually increased the most it
looks like in 2020 it was around maybe
12% and in 2022 we're looking at closer
to 22% um there's quite a large increase
there over over two years and so that
would be really interesting if we had a
further breakdown of that um but we'll
we'll dive into that a little bit later
um but I would imagine just just from
looking at this probably now the biggest
concern for me and I'm and I'm shifting
a little bit more uh away from
distribution just because given that's
the next one that actually was stagnant
for a year and then has only increased
marginally um and that's the same with
marketing of promotions and so not only
could 2022 be some sort of anomaly with
again macroeconomic factors um
contributing to that but it doesn't seem
like it's increasing that much and if
they're noticing that they've had a
steady decline in profit it then it's
probably not there sgna pretty stagnant
um maybe maybe a a later thing to look
into would be actually increasing those
costs in terms of trying to push more
units but I imagine that the the root of
the problem here lies within storage and
warehousing uh and maybe a tiny bit in
raw materials great is there anything in
here that confirms that we are probably
growing Revenue like your hypothesis was
there before yeah do you know that's
that's a really good point that you
bring that up uh if raw materials are
increasing one possibility is that the
actual price of raw materials is
increasing but it could also mean we're
spending more um but I think the biggest
thing would be distribution if we're
spending more in
distribution one of the options for that
and one of the reasons that could be is
actually we are Distributing more
products and if we're Distributing more
products we're probably growing in
Revenue love it okay great anything else
you want to talk about here before we
move on no I'm happy to move on awesome
so I'll leave that there in case it's
helpful context for you okay what else
do you want to talk about
um do we have any more information on
storage and warehousing that's again
where my concern is more focused now
yeah well why don't you break it down
what do you think are the components of
storage and warehousing if we click down
a layer yeah um imagine that we were
kind of creating a an Excel spreadsheet
breaking that down into its
subcomponents what are the subcomponents
of storage and warehousing here well you
have to forgive me I'm not an expert in
the in the storage industry but I would
imagine uh the biggest let me I would
imagine the biggest cost probably just
the rent itself in terms of how much
you're actually paying for this big
storage and Warehouse uh if it's
something like uh food I would imagine
there's probably also some sort of
climate control in there you don't want
it to be humid you don't want it to be
too hot so maybe that's an element um
another thing would be um maybe in terms
of actually inputting those and managing
that storage facility so um my thought
there immediately goes to Amazon when
they have a obviously it's a much bigger
scale there but they have millions of
products coming in and out every every
day and so actually hiring the workers
to go ahead and manage that and bring
the products in and out could be another
thing and then when it comes to cookie
companies and and and food in general
there's probably some sort of um cost
associated with the loss of goods so
obviously if you're selling a sofa or a
couch it's not going to expire whereas a
cookie if we're not selling enough units
which may not actually be the issue here
but if we're not selling enough units we
might not actually be able to um ship
out all our products before they expire
so I don't know if that would be under
storage and warehousing or if that would
be under um raw materials or
distribution um but that that could be
in in that it's interesting that you
mentioned that the product is expiring
piece um how is that a cost is that a
you know how how would we actually put
that on the books for the business
so naturally I would assume that if it's
if you're losing it you're just not
getting the revenue and so you're you're
paying 100% of the cost or maybe not
100% right you're not paying for
distribution but you're paying for most
of the cost and you're incurring no
revenue from that so you are getting a
negative re negative profit with that um
am I on the right that makes sense so
let's poke into that a little bit more
um we have noticed that inventory losses
have spiked in the last two to three
years uh can you suggest a couple of
ways to potentially bring them under
control yeah do you mind me to take 20
30 seconds to organize my thoughts I'll
let you do that just this once thank
you
okay so I came with a few ideas there um
and let me just walk you walk you throw
those when it comes to those inventory
losses um and I actually forgot to
include one on there there's there's
three main categories I'd look at okay
the actual storage facility itself so
how are we how are we storing them is
the storage are the storage conditions
good enough okay um and the management
of there are we are we tucking away a
box of cookies in the back of the
storage facility and forgetting about
them until it's too late great uh as
well as not selling enough so just not
having enough turnover maybe producing
more than we can actually sell okay and
then the last thing would um would
actually be in terms of the the cookies
themselves are they if they're not fresh
cookies like crumble or something else
maybe they're maybe they're expiring too
fast and there's room for optimization
there but I would really want to drill
down on the first two awesome how'd you
fix them yeah so we're talking about the
bad storage itself the climate is one
thing we could fix making sure the
storage facility isn't getting too humid
making sure it's not getting too hot an
important caveat there is that that is
something that the packaging itself
should be doing in terms of the
management systems maybe there are none
in place maybe the management systems
are suboptimal but I would make sure
that we're really adopting a and and not
to get to accounting here but a fifo
method in terms of okay first in first
out so or sorry we should actually do
lifo last in first out you sure uh let
me just let me Define it and then we can
make sure that got the right one um
whatever is going into the uh so it
would be Fifer whatever's going into the
warehouse first should be the first to
come out we don't want um months where
cookies are sitting in place where other
there's turnover of other cookies
absolutely especially if we have one bad
month of sales that could really pile up
and and make the issue worse in terms of
not selling enough I think that the
biggest solution there would be some
sort of analytics just making sure we
can predict more accurately how many
units we're full casted to sell and then
we just make that make a little bit more
obviously than that and make sure that
we're not making way too many when maybe
during a recession or during a Changing
Times people aren't buying as many
cookies again I don't think that's the
issue it's probably one of the one of
the first ones okay love it so uh great
you at this point I think we are getting
pretty close to time in the case I'm
going to ask you just to provide a final
recommendation for the client I know
that of course there are things that we
could look at if we had more time but if
we were just here you're in an elevator
and the CEO's there what would you say
yeah well thank you for meeing me I
think the the most important thing to to
note here is that these storage and
warehousing costs are are getting too
high too high and are actually creating
an issue uh for the profitability of the
company and I think to to fix this we
really need to look into the root of
that and and I think one of the biggest
Roots could be the climate and also the
management systems in place so in terms
of some next steps I think developing um
if we don't already have it some sort of
management system to make sure that uh
all of our inventory is getting out in
the right time and is not getting
clogged by other units I think that's
going to be the best way to solve this
problem now I will say that a risk with
that is if we start incurring even more
money on this and we can't find the
issue soon enough we could potentially
be driving our profits even further down
fantastic thank you all right so let me
provide some feedback you ready for this
yeah first of all just what were your
thoughts how did you feel what did you
like what do you think you could have
done better yeah as a pretty uh math
focused person I always love it when
there's more calculations involved and
maybe less of the creativity side but I
really enjoyed this case I thought um
the exhibit itself wasn't too difficult
to read into um I definitely had to
Pivot once or twice I think we noticed
that throughout the case that you I
almost felt like I was led into one
place and then it was like actually with
this piece of information I need to just
quickly PIV in so I think that's really
good practice to be able to do that
because that's what happens a lot of the
time both in case interviews and in the
real world
um but I think I maybe could have been a
little bit more structured in terms of
the once we knew it was storage and
warehousing figuring out the potential
Solutions I probably could have listed a
few more there and maybe dug into those
love it so I'll just provide you with my
feedback again overall really good job
got the general sense that you knew it
was happening that you were being
insightful that you were layering on
those insights of course I you know
every consultant can find something that
they can improve on so I'm going to just
go through I thought with your beginning
I thought you did did a really good job
um both the recap was clear concise
didn't this is a very short one doesn't
need to be long um and you know the only
thing that I might have enhanced there
was just uh really making sure that you
reflected on this question of whether
you thought if it was a macroeconomic
issue where others were doing well um
was it because they had been cost
cutting or was it because they had been
you know punching Revenue growth and if
and you know expecting that based on
what we've seen in the last couple of
years with inflation but also with the
um Improvement in consumer goods
purchasing like it's probably going to
be a cost issue I think you could have
identified that earlier okay and um and
you know you don't you don't even have
to necessarily ask it as a clarifying
question but just giving me that context
as a heads up would have would have
really kind of improved that and and it
would have um helped me make sure that
you were focusing on profitability
because actually when you went to your
structure I wasn't 100% sure okay um I
also just thought you could have maybe
provided me some of the context for your
questions so really good questions but
right here's why I'm asking if we need
to look outside of the us obviously
there will be a much broader scope of
this there's a lot of complexity in in
the way that we think about our supply
chain so I'm assuming we're going to
focus on the US right so giving me just
a little bit more of that background you
had more time felt like you were rushing
to get into the structure and there's a
difference between kind of command and
rushing at the beginning so uh so I
think you have a little bit more time to
sit back into it like really kind of you
know marinate on the issues and also
explain to me what those are um with
your structure you know I think again
really good kind of core questions I
give you a three um on the structure and
actually I gave you the ratings for
everything let me go back to that so um
I that's not out of 10 right no out of
four um so in the MC um case scoring
right three and a half for the case
recap and a three for the clarifying
questions and then I give you a three
for the case structure um and and the
guidance here is that it has at least
three buckets you did um the buckets
have three ideas that focus on data
little bit light on that um but um the
ideas are mey I felt like that was
pretty good um I would have liked to
have seen two different things to make
it a four one is I wanted you to present
me costs first yeah right when I asked
you the question you got there but you
had a full extra minute in your
preparation time or you could have
thought about it punched a little deeper
on the costs and presented it even if
you wrote down revenue's cost Market you
could have presented the cost First
gotcha I would have liked to have seen
that anytime we're doing a profitability
case and you're able to do not walk me
through here's what the profitability is
and kind of more like here's what I
think the issue is I'm going to
appreciate that especially when I'm in
BCG um and then in addition you kind of
said you know I'm going to keep it at a
high level I don't want a high level I
actually do really want a more
comprehensive structure here so uh I
would have wanted for your revenues to
highlight not just the unit sold and the
prices sold but maybe product mix or
something else kind of focused on the
revenue side right are discounting
inflation right like impacts of of of
those things um and so in fact I think
that here you could have actually broken
out revenues into prices and um and
quantities um or I think you could have
broken out costs um but if you're if
you're going to do the market piece just
make sure that you don't include I think
I think what was is challenging about
this specific structure is that you have
to make sure it's mey so you can't go
too detailed on the revenue side and
include the market p as well so you
might have just wanted to go a little
bit more granular on a traditional
Market uh profit ability structure but
just reorganize it a little bit so you
could go a little bit more detailed um
and so so good job but I think there was
a great there that you could have
attained um on the case math question
you know you you I could tell you were
thrilled about the case um obviously
with BCG you have to lead yourself into
it which is why at the end of the
structure I asked you the question about
costs I asked you to delineate what the
costs were you could have done that
independently a little bit better um
also I I don't at one point you
mentioned it I don't know if it was
misspeaking but um you mentioned that
the it was percentage increase and I
don't know if you were making a
calculation or if you were reading this
as percentage instead of millions of
dollars so just make sure that as you're
talking through it I would just give the
context at the beginning right this is
in dollars so these are real increases
right um and and then I will calculate
the percentages just maybe for me the
interviewer lay out for me um because a
lot of those insights I thought were
pretty good and um and then I I also you
mentioned that there might have been a
decrease in labor on the um raw material
side again I think it may have been
misspeaking I think you were talking
about decrease in labor availability is
that right like leading to a price
increase of um of Labor and so but there
were a few things that kind of didn't
follow linear thinking there and so um
so again I gave you a a three under five
minutes actually maybe too little time
um but I would really wanted you to
begin to um punch into those extra
things that I asked you about on the end
when I asked you did a good job um for
uh the case creative stuff when you
started to uh break this down I got a
little nervous you have a pretty great
mental recall but you didn't write down
the brainstorming list of the different
factors so in in a couple times you kept
like putting the cap on the pen and
putting it down and and so I would just
say maybe keep yourself poised at the
ready especially in a BCG case because
of the brainstorming and the leading um
if you're in a Mackenzie case you're
going to know when they're moving on in
a BCG case maybe not so so just uh just
to think about that um when it comes to
that I can't remember if I asked for
more time than maybe like 30 seconds you
did okay is that is that the right step
then for someone to do in that you can
always do it I would just say if we're
practicing there I you know I I was
tempted because in BCG I generally would
say no this is conversational uh and so
so contextually in McKenzie yes in BCG
no in Bay maybe practice it both ways um
and so I I was I was tempted to say no
but I felt like giving you a break on
this one so um it could have gone either
way for you always it's fine to ask just
be ready to have say no and if they say
no the first time never ask again that's
a really good piece of advice yeah um
and then finally um on the case creative
question so again I thought you did a
good job of listing out the initial
level but it was really just a
brainstorming list and it didn't address
what I asked you I think you could have
clarified what I asked what I asked
specifically was can you suggest some
ways to bring them under control and so
uh you gave me what the problems could
be but not the solutions and so we had
to go back to that and you also you
didn't write down what the solutions
were as you were talking through it so I
feel like um that will lead me into my
final piece so so kind of three three
across the board there too and then on
the final recommendation I felt like
that was like a 2.53 I think that at the
beginning you could have just got given
one sentence of context right we're
looking at profitability that's out of
line with market growth of other
competitors we found that the issue was
right just a little bit more of a story
format um and I felt like if you had had
the the notes and the responses you
might have been able to tick a few of
those things off a little bit more
clearly I would also just recommend in
your risks and next steps that you
number them for me yeah um I was taking
notes and I actually don't know if you
had one two or three I I don't know if
you were subheading or if you were
moving on and so just you know right at
the very end right when I when you know
I'm going to walk out and score you on
whether you were structured or not give
me the most structured final
recommendation you can wonderful other
than that final questions um I guess in
terms of the conclusion there um
straight into it no no time to to
formulate or anything um given it's a BC
and good that way I guess exactly and so
should I keep the pen cap there and just
give you it verbally with the structure
I think that's fine I wouldn't I
wouldn't normally have you write down
anything during the final recommendation
it's really just during the
brainstorming and so if I ask you a
question and and you're thinking through
things if you what what I what you risk
if you don't write it down is that you
talk through them you have great ideas
and you forget them yeah we move on to
the next section so just in terms of
organization and structure just trying
to keep everything together wonderful
awesome well thank you thank
[Music]
you